All right, fantastic.
So we are going to move on
here to our tablet design.
So we are at section 3D that is
Chapter 3 Section D, tablet design.
And so I have a lot of blah, blah here.
Basically what this says is, what you
wanna do is you wanna take a look at your
current mobile design, take a look at
your tablet design, and talk about,
write it down in plain English, what
are the differences between these two.
We can go back and refer to those
PowerPoint slides I had earlier.
So let's talk about these, all right?
So we have coded what is on the left-side,
here.
We've coded that mobile design and
this is the spec for
our tablet design, so
does anybody wanna give me what
are the differences,
what do we need to think about here?
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Right, so for the tour,
the actual name tour itself
goes all the way across, and
then we have three columns of tour dates,
right?
So that's one thing, what else?
>> Images are in a row instead of a column
>> We have got the images going
across in a row instead of stacked
in a column, okay, anything else?
>> The font is bigger.
>> The font looks, well,
it definitely looks a little bit bigger,
I think that's actually an artifact of the
fact that we've squashed our mobile, yeah,
but that was a good eye.
Yes, absolutely,
I can see why you think that.
What else?
How about that image of the guys,
the Magenta line guys?
It's probably bigger on tablet
than it is on mobile, isn't it?
Okay, so we probably have to
think about that a little bit.
Okay good, so now you have those pictures
in your head you know what you're aiming
for, let's start coding that.
And as I say here in the notes,
we've talked about what
changes between the layouts.
We also need to think about some of those
layout changes happen within a section of
the Web page, whereas some of them
are the whole Web page, right?
So we kinda work from inside out, so
we just like we worked through here,
like the tour section,
we might work on that in isolation and
then apply it to the larger page.
And always you can't,
if you can't see it you can't style it,
so put on those borders put in
those background colors, so
you can see what you're doing is
always a really important thing to do.
All right, [COUGH] so I'm gonna start
with my appropriate CodePen here,
the link is in the Website
we can make a fork for that.
Okay, so we've got all these layers here,
you can add media queries
to each of these layers, or
you can add a big media query at the end
of the layers, whatever makes sense.
I will probably put the media queries
inside of the individual layers.
Okay, so I'm gonna go back to
my base layer here momentarily,
and in here we had a Wrapper style.
Where's our wrapper style?
Or we didn't have a wrapper style.
We didn't have a wrapper style.
>> It's in the next layer.
>> It's in the next layer, okay,
so we have this wrapper
style that's available here.
And the header banner tour layer,
which I think I originally might
have just called it header, and
you'll see that we have it
set to a max width of 375.
So now we're gonna talk about a larger
screen, so we wanna change that, and
we do that with a media query.
So down here in this layer,
we will add @media,
that's how you start a media query,
and then we will add parentheses.
This is, again,
part of the media query, and
we can say our min-width will
be 800 pixels, why this?
Why 800 pixels?
This is what happens to
work with the design,
this is the spec that came from
the designer, etcetera, etcetera.
But you notice that,
that takes that structure of @media,
we have the parentheses and
there's a test.
So we can do a max-width,
you can do a min-width,
you can do testing for portrait or
landscape, that is something you can do.
You can test for aspect ratios, you can
test for Black and white versus color.
There are a lot of things that
media queries will test for, but
generally speaking,
when we're working here with layouts,
we're pretty commonly doing a min-width or
a max-width, make sense?
Okay?
Notice that with a min-width, we're seeing
these tiles that are inside of this
media query will not apply unless
we're at 800 pixels or bigger.
So we're adding styles on to what came
before which apply to everything, right?
So sometimes we're gonna
override what came before,
sometimes we're writing additional styles
that will only apply at 800 pixels, yeah?
So this is mobile first,
anytime you see a min-width media
query like this, that is mobile first.
Pro-tip, anytime you see a max-width
media query, what is that?
>> Desktop
>> Desktop first, okay, good.
All right, so right here inside of this,
we can put in our wrapper, and
now we can change our max-width.
So our max-width will go to 800 pixels,
okay, and
the screen mirror may not change.
Why didn't it change?
>> [INAUDIBLE] Not there yet,
we are not at 800 pixel.
>> Actually it did change, we just can't
see it because we have this wrapper and
our styling actually works
just fine at 375 pixels or
lower, and you may have your screen open.
If you notice down here at the bottom,
it will give you a little number and
tell you exactly what your
screen width is here in CodePen.
Look down there by the JavaScript pane
that I have minimized there, see that?
So whoop, there we go [LAUGH] boom,
I'm over 800 pixels now, so
if your screen looks like mine,
you're over 800 pixels.
>> So then when does
the breakpoint come into play, and
I guess I wanna know the difference
between when to use media query and
when to use breakpoint, and
how are they alike and different?
>> They are exactly the same thing.
People talk about breakpoints,
that is sort of that concept of things are
going to change at a certain dimension.
Media query is how we
implement a breakpoint, yap?
>> Is there a standard number for tablets?
>> I would look at what Bootstrap
does because they're Bootstrap,
they establish standards for everything.
But I think you'd find like 767,
800 something like that is usually tablet.
>> Okay.
>> But it can be whatever you want,
and you don't have to have three,
you can have four, you can have 12,
it doesn't matter.